# Classic Arcade Game Clone Project
+ The Arcade game is such an Interesting game.
+ I also learned Document Object Modelling (DOM) and also learned to create content in JavaScript.
## Table of Contents

- [Instructions](#instructions)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Instructions

Use this [rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/15/view) for self-checking your submission.

Make sure the functions you write are **object-oriented** - either class functions (like `Player` and `Enemy`) or class prototype functions such as `Enemy.prototype.checkCollisions`. Also make sure that the keyword `this` is used appropriately within your class and class prototype functions to refer to the object the function is called upon.

Your **README.md** file should be updated with instructions on both how to 1. Run and 2. Play your arcade game.

For detailed instructions on how to get started, check out this [guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v01aScPjSWCCWQLIpFqvg3-vXLH2e8_SZQKC8jNO0Dc/pub?embedded=true).

## Contributing

This repository is the starter code for _all_ Udacity students. Therefore, we most likely will not accept pull requests.
------------------------------------
## I had followed the following steps in order to develop the game.
+ Firstly I had downloaded skeleton of the project using GitHub link provided by **Udacity** and extracted downloaded the zip file and had read all the information given by them.
## The changes I have done in the given game.
+ Then I had opened index.html on the required browser and got errors in the console and in the way of solving those errors I had implemented an array naming it as `allEnemies[]` and player class and also created an object for player class.
+ I had also implemented the below functions for Player
  - `render()`
  - `update()`
  - `handleInput()`
+ `render()` is the function used for placing a player sprite on canvas.
+ `update()` is the function used for updating the player position, this function has already implemented by using a `dt` parameter.
+ `handleInput()` had used for handling the inputs given by the user . The input indications were already given . Using the indications I had just implemented the functionality . I had implemented `handleInput()` functions by dividing the canvas into number of pieces using `switch` case.
 - left arrow: This key wont work when the player reached left most of the canvas and we can use this for moving left side on X-axis until its left end.
 -  right arrow: This key wont work when the player reached right most of the canvas and we can use this for moving right side on X-axis until its right end.
 - up arrow: This key wont work when the player reached top  of the canvas and we can use this for moving up side on Y-axis until the top of the canvas.
 - down arrow: This key wont work when the player is at down of the canvas and we can use this for moving down  on Y-axis.
+ If the user had touched water area ,the score will be incremented by one and the player will come to its actual position. And also I had written logic for playing alternative players.
+ I had implemented Enemy activity similarly by developing 2 functions for Enemy.
      + `render()`
      + `update()`
+ `render` function has already given . I had used an array for placing enemies  after calculating .and `update()` had used to update the enemy position based on the speed generated by JavaScript random function.
+ In update function of player I had given logic for Players as they will be changed alternatively.

## Instructions to load and play the game.
+ Open the `index.html` file in your favorite browser and let it be loaded.
+ To play the game we will have a canvas and two headings at the top as `ARCADEGAME` and since it is desktop mode I had gave another heading as only desktop mode game.
+ We can move the player sprite using arrows.
+ The bugs as Enemies will be keep on moving on the game area and if the player touches the bug score will become 0.
+ `score` will be increased when the player touches water block and pop up will be displayed when player touches bug .
+ Alternatively players will be changed based on the score. If the score is even one player will play the game and If the score is odd another player will play.
+ I also used `sweetalert2` and this will be appeared on screen as pop-up message when the player touches the bug. Then the game will be completed and the points earned by the user will be displayed.
+ And I had also provided an option `restart` to restart the game in the pop up menu.
